Let us look at.
Static variables.
This is a little confusing.
So I will make it very easy for you.
Just listen it very carefully.
I have already covered local and global variable so based on that, with the help of that I'll explain
you static variables.
See here I have an example program inside this I have one global variable that is V which is having
value 0, then function is there which is having a local variable 5.
And it is doing C++ and displaying A and V and from main function it is calling function fun for three
times.
Now let us see how it works what will be the output we know well about the global variable, first i will show you the working
then I will show you what is static variable.
So main is not having anything just it is calling function fun main is not doing any work at all apart
from calling this function.
So let us see, the moment I say i want to run.
This is loaded inside the main section so the machine code is loaded in the code section then also
variable v is also created you know well that these global variables are created inside code section at loading
time before the execution of a program
now let me execute and show you, I'm using global variable again, just a minor change I'll make you understand
static variable, just follow this carefully.
Let us see the execution main function start.
So there is nothing inside main function so a dummy activation record I am taking, there is no variable
so no memory at all, then the function fun is called function fun activation record is created what
is the variable inside this one A and what is the value in this one 5 then V++ this V becomes one
this V becomes 1 then print A and V, A is what 5 and V is what 1.
So instead of showing here I will show here.
So 5 and 1, A is and 5 and V is 1 in the first called
This is displayed, and once the function ends this activation record is deleted then it come back
to the main function and what is the next line.
Again the function call, again the function is called.
So activation record is created, A is created.
What are the value of A,  5 then V++,  v becomes two, and print A, V. A is what 5 only, and V is how much now, 2
As it's a global Variable. now  once the function ends.
Again the activation that code is deleted.
Now you know when I call it again 5,3 will be printed.  now we can understand what are static Variables.
Listen this is local variable for function fun, it is  created and destroyed whenever the function is
called.
This is a global variable which is remaining there through out the program inside the code section and the
both these function can access it.
But here in my example only function fun is accessing, main is not accessing, there is no problem.
It's not mandatory that every function should access it. now this is a global variable who can access any
function can access how long it will be there as long as the program is running.
I want this variable inside this one
int V assign Zero. if you bring that variable here, it's not global, it became local, it became
local.
Yes.
No, I want a that to be just like  global.
What does it mean by just like global.
There are two points about global.
It can be accessible everywhere, and it will remain always in the memory.
Which one you want.
I want it to remain always in the memory like this.
I don't want it to be accessible by all the functions.
I want it to be accessible only by this function.
So write static here.
Yes that's a global variable property of two property one property.
What is that.
It will be there through the execution time of a program.
So yes static variables are the variables which remains always in the memory.
Always in the memory.
They are just like a global Variable.
Only the difference between global and static variable is global variable can be access in any function
static variable are accessible only inside the function in which they are declared.
Now if I run this program now static variable how it works.
Same way same result, first time it is called V is zero then A is created  function fun, A is created with
the value five and it will  V Plus plus or V becomes 0 to 1 now then display what 5,1.
and function ends.
This is gone, but that remains as it is, in the second call.
Again, this is not done again.
Remember in the second call we have written it here every time it is not created it is created only one
time that is at the loading time.
Now next again A is created, A is created for function fun and V++ so the same V becomes 2 and print 5 and 2
That's it.
So the point here is when you write any static variable it is not created every time.
Just like other local variables.
So whenever you think of a static variable imagine that they are global.
But their scope visibility is limited to a function that's it, that's it.
this is the easiest way to understand static Variables.
So let us try this even I will try and show you.